Add Restore Lab (#12)
acend/openshift-4-ops-training: content/en/docs/02/03_restore.md

sectionnumber: 2.3
---

## Task {{% param sectionnumber %}}.1: Restoring user workload backups

In the backup lab you created a scheduled backup of all resources in namespace `uptime-app-prod`. Now we will test the restore process.

Go ahead and delete the namespace `uptime-app-prod`:

```bash

> oc delete ns uptime-app-prod

Author: I have to test the behavior.
If project specific config like annotations or labels are not backed up (because not k8s native), then we need to rethink the use of Velero anyway.

> oc delete ns uptime-app-prod

Reviewer: Deleting the namespace deletes the project anyway, so I don't see a difference.

> oc delete ns uptime-app-prod

Author: Annotations are preserved, changed to `delete project`.

```

Update your backup storage location to read-only mode (this prevents backup objects from being created or deleted in the backup storage location during the restore process):

```bash
oc patch backupstoragelocation default \
   --namespace training-infra-velero \
   --type merge \
   --patch '{"spec":{"accessMode":"ReadOnly"}}'
```

> Create a `Restore` object from your `Backup`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to restore a backup, we need to create a `Restore` object. A `Restore` object looks like this:
```

{{< highlight yaml >}}{{< readfile file="content/en/docs/02/resources/restore_uptime-app-prod.yaml" >}}{{< /highlight >}}

> {{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
> You need to replace the placeholder `<backup-name>` with the name of the backup you want to restore.
> 
> To list your available backups:
> 
> ```bash
> oc -n training-infra-velero get backups
> ```
> 
> {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy above `Restore` resource into a file on your bastion host. Replace the placeholder `<backup-name>` with the name of the backup you want to restore. To list your available backups:

```bash
oc -n training-infra-velero get backups
```

Now create the resource using `oc apply -f <filename`.
```
